Add 334 release notes (#3824)
prestosql/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/release/release-334.rst

=========================
Release 333 (XX May 2020)
=========================

General Changes
---------------

* Fix incorrect query results for certain queries involving comparisons of ``real`` and ``double`` types
  when values include negative zero. (:issue:`3745`)
* Fix late materialization with aggregation queries. (:issue:`3577`)

> * Fix late materialization with empty splits. (:issue:`3577`)

Reviewer: When table is empty query would fail

> * Fix late materialization with empty splits. (:issue:`3577`)

Author: Is that the same for both items?

> * Fix late materialization with empty splits. (:issue:`3577`)

Reviewer: > Is that the same for both items?

yes.

----------------------

* Fix creation of external tables using ``CREATE TABLE AS``. Previously such table was created
  as managed and with default location. (:issue:`3755`)
* Fix incorrect table statistics for new external table. (:issue:`3819`)
* Prevent Presto from starting when cache fails to initialize. (:issue:`3749`)
* Fix race condition that could cause caching to be unwillingly disabled. (:issue:`3729`, :issue:`3810`)
* Fix malformed reads when caching parallel warmup is enabled. (:issue:`3772`)
* Fix evicting of cached data while still under size eviction threshold. (:issue:`3772`)
* Improve performance when creating unpartitioned external tables over large data sets. (:issue:`3624`)
* Leverage Parquet file statistics when reading decimal columns. (:issue:`3581`)
* Change type of ``$file_modified_time`` hidden column from ``bigint`` to ``timestamp with timezone type``. (:issue:`3611`)
* Add caching support for HDFS and Azure. (:issue:`3772`)
* Fix S3 connection pool depletion when caching parallel warmup is enabled. (:issue:`3772`)
* Don't initialize cache on coordinator by default. (:issue:`3820`)
* Use caching asynchronous read mode by default. (:issue:`3799`)

> * Add session property for disabling Hive cache. (:issue:`3843`)

Reviewer: It's `cache_enabled`

> * Add session property for disabling Hive cache. (:issue:`3843`)

Reviewer: this line needs to be removed after: https://github.com/prestosql/presto/pull/3875

> * Add session property for disabling Hive cache. (:issue:`3843`)

Reviewer 2: (if this stays) disabling -> skipping?

=========================

> Release 333 (XX May 2020)

Reviewer 2: 334

=========================

General Changes
---------------

* Fix incorrect query results for certain queries involving comparisons of ``real`` and ``double`` types
  when values include negative zero. (:issue:`3745`)
* Fix failure when querying an empty table with late materialization enabled. (:issue:`3577`)
* Fix failure when the inputs to ``UNNEST`` are repeated. (:issue:`3587`)
* Fix failure when an aggregation is used in the arguments to :func:`format`. (:issue:`3829`)
* Fix :func:`localtime` and :func:`current_time` for session zones with DST or with historical offset changes
  in legacy (default) timestamp semantics. (:issue:`3846`, :issue:`3850`)
* Improve performance of queries involving :func:`row_number`. (:issue:`3614`)
* Improve performance of queries containing ``LIKE`` predicate. (:issue:`3618`)
* Improve query performance when dynamic filtering is enabled. (:issue:`3632`)
* Improve performance for queries that read fields from nested structures. (:issue:`2672`)

> * Add variant of :func:`random` function that produces a number between m and n. (:issue:`1848`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add variant of :func:`random` function that produces a number between given two numbers. (:issue:`1848`)
```

Reviewer 3: How about

> that produces a number in the provided range

* Fix dynamic filter failures in complex spatial join queries. (:issue:`3694`)
* Add :doc:`/connector/oracle`. (:issue:`1959`)
* Add :doc:`/connector/pinot`. (:issue:`2028`)

> * Add support for modern HTTP forwarded headers. Processing of HTTP forwarded headers are now controlled by the

Reviewer 2: "modern" is not descriptive

Reviewer 3: ```
standard compliant (:rfc:`7239`)

Reviewer 3: are -> is

"Processing of ... is controlled by"

  ``http-server.process-forwarded`` configuration, and the old ``http-server.authentication.allow-forwarded-https`` and
  ``dispatcher.forwarded-header`` configurations are no longer supported. (:issue:`3714`)

CLI Changes
-----------

* Improve rendering of elapsed time for short queries. (:issue:`3311`)

Web UI Changes
--------------

> * Add fixed, certificate, JWT and Kerberos to UI authentication. (:issue:`3433`)

Reviewer 2: maybe `fixed` -> ``` ``fixed`` ```, since it's a used a name, not an adjective?

Reviewer 3: Add comma after JWT

Author: Just quote "fixed" but not the others? That looks inconsistent.

* Show join distribution type in Live Plan. (:issue:`1323`)

JDBC Driver Changes
-------------------

* Improve performance of ``DatabaseMetaData#getColumns`` method in case when parameters
  contain unescaped ``%`` or ``_``. (:issue:`1620`)

Elasticsearch Connector Changes
-------------------------------

* Fix failure when executing ``SHOW CREATE TABLE``. (:issue:`3718`)
* Improve performance for ``count(*)`` queries. (:issue:`3512`)
* Add support for raw Elasticsearch queries. (:issue:`3735`)

Hive Connector Changes
----------------------

* Fix creation of external tables using ``CREATE TABLE AS``. Previously such table was created

>   as managed and with default location. (:issue:`3755`)

Reviewer 2: This was introduced recently (330). Do we wa want to mention when?

Author: What was introduced recently? The bug? Or the ability to create external tables?

Reviewer 2: The bug _and_ ability to create external tables with data.

* Fix incorrect table statistics for new external table. (:issue:`3819`)
* Prevent Presto from starting when cache fails to initialize. (:issue:`3749`)

> * Fix race condition that could cause caching to be unwillingly disabled. (:issue:`3729`, :issue:`3810`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix race condition that could cause caching to be permanently disabled. (:issue:`3729`, :issue:`3810`)
```

> * Fix malformed reads when caching parallel warmup is enabled. (:issue:`3772`)

Reviewer 2: parallel warmup -> async mode

* Fix evicting of cached data while still under size eviction threshold. (:issue:`3772`)
* Improve performance when creating unpartitioned external tables over large data sets. (:issue:`3624`)
* Leverage Parquet file statistics when reading decimal columns. (:issue:`3581`)
* Change type of ``$file_modified_time`` hidden column from ``bigint`` to ``timestamp with timezone type``. (:issue:`3611`)

> * Add caching support for HDFS and Azure. (:issue:`3772`)

Reviewer 2: Azure -> Azure storages 

(or something like that)

Reviewer 3: > Azure file systems

> * Fix S3 connection pool depletion when caching parallel warmup is enabled. (:issue:`3772`)

Reviewer 2: parallel warmup  -> async mode

> * Don't initialize cache on coordinator by default. (:issue:`3820`)

Reviewer 2: by default, or never?
i understand there is no caching on coordinator whatsoever?

Author: @sopel39 ?

Reviewer: Let me rephrase:
```
Disable caching on coordinator by default. It can still be enabled by feature toggle for development purposes. (:issue:`3820`)
```

Reviewer 3: Let's drop the second sentence. "disable by default" implies it can be enabled with config, and we don't need to mention why

> Disable caching on coordinator by default.

> * Use caching asynchronous read mode by default. (:issue:`3799`)

Reviewer 2: asynchronous read mode -> async mode ?? how do we want to call it?

Reviewer 3: The config is `hive.cache.read-mode=ASYNC` so this sounds fine. Maybe flip the sentence

> Use asynchronous read mode for caching by default.

* Add session property for disabling Hive cache. (:issue:`3843`)
* Allow caching delegation token for Hive thrift metastore. This can be configured with
  the ``hive.metastore.thrift.delegation-token.cache-ttl`` and ``hive.metastore.thrift.delegation-token.cache-maximum-size``

>   configuration properties. (:issue:`3771`)

Reviewer 2: This is enabled by default, so "Allow caching" -> "Cache"

MemSQL Connector Changes
------------------------

> * Include :doc:`/connector/memsql` in the server build. (:issue:`3743`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Include :doc:`/connector/memsql` in the server build.
  Previously the connector was not part of the project's release artifacts. (:issue:`3743`)
```

Reviewer 3: "release artifacts" is not correct. I think we can just remove the second sentence.

Author: How about:

> Include ... in the server packaging.

or

> Include ... in the server tarball and RPM

Reviewer 3: The second one looks good

MongoDB Connector Changes
-------------------------

> * Allow case insensitive database and collection name. This can be enabled with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Support case insensitive database and collection names. This can be enabled with the
```

=========================
Release 333 (XX May 2020)
=========================

General Changes
---------------

* Fix incorrect query results for certain queries involving comparisons of ``real`` and ``double`` types
  when values include negative zero. (:issue:`3745`)
* Fix failure when querying an empty table with late materialization enabled. (:issue:`3577`)
* Fix failure when the inputs to ``UNNEST`` are repeated. (:issue:`3587`)
* Fix failure when an aggregation is used in the arguments to :func:`format`. (:issue:`3829`)
* Fix :func:`localtime` and :func:`current_time` for session zones with DST or with historical offset changes
  in legacy (default) timestamp semantics. (:issue:`3846`, :issue:`3850`)
* Improve performance of queries involving :func:`row_number`. (:issue:`3614`)
* Improve performance of queries containing ``LIKE`` predicate. (:issue:`3618`)
* Improve query performance when dynamic filtering is enabled. (:issue:`3632`)
* Improve performance for queries that read fields from nested structures. (:issue:`2672`)
* Add variant of :func:`random` function that produces a number between m and n. (:issue:`1848`)

> * Fix dynamic filter failures in complex spatial join queries. (:issue:`3694`)

Reviewer 3: Move above with the other Fix

* Add :doc:`/connector/oracle`. (:issue:`1959`)
* Add :doc:`/connector/pinot`. (:issue:`2028`)
* Add :doc:`/connector/prometheus`. (:issue:`2321`)
* Add support for modern HTTP forwarded headers. Processing of HTTP forwarded headers are now controlled by the

>   ``http-server.process-forwarded`` configuration, and the old ``http-server.authentication.allow-forwarded-https`` and

Reviewer 3: configuration property

>   ``dispatcher.forwarded-header`` configurations are no longer supported. (:issue:`3714`)

Reviewer 3: configuration properties

* Add pluggable :doc:`/develop/certificate-authenticator`. (:issue:`3804`)

> * Show distributed plan by default in :doc:`/sql/explain`. (:issue:`3724`)

Reviewer 3: Move this above, before the Add items

JDBC Driver
-----------

* Implement ``toString()`` for ``java.sqlArray`` results. (:issue:`3803`)

CLI Changes
-----------

* Improve rendering of elapsed time for short queries. (:issue:`3311`)

Web UI Changes
--------------

* Add fixed, certificate, JWT and Kerberos to UI authentication. (:issue:`3433`)
* Show join distribution type in Live Plan. (:issue:`1323`)

JDBC Driver Changes
-------------------

> * Improve performance of ``DatabaseMetaData#getColumns`` method in case when parameters

Reviewer 3: ```
* Improve performance of ``DatabaseMetaData.getColumns()`` when the
  parameters contain unescaped ``%`` or ``_``. (:issue:`1620`)

  contain unescaped ``%`` or ``_``. (:issue:`1620`)

Elasticsearch Connector Changes
-------------------------------

* Fix failure when executing ``SHOW CREATE TABLE``. (:issue:`3718`)
* Improve performance for ``count(*)`` queries. (:issue:`3512`)

> * Add support for raw Elasticsearch queries. (:issue:`3735`)

Reviewer 3: Do we explain this somewhere?

Author: No, we don't have documentation for this yet.

Hive Connector Changes
----------------------

* Fix matching bucket filenames without leading zeros. (:issue:`3702`)

> * Fix creation of external tables using ``CREATE TABLE AS``. Previously such table was created

Reviewer 3: ```
* Fix creation of external tables using ``CREATE TABLE AS``. Previously, the
  tables were created as managed and with the default location. (:issue:`3755`)

  as managed and with default location. (:issue:`3755`)

> * Fix incorrect table statistics for new external table. (:issue:`3819`)

Reviewer 3: > Fix incorrect table statistics for newly created external tables.

* Prevent Presto from starting when cache fails to initialize. (:issue:`3749`)
* Fix race condition that could cause caching to be unwillingly disabled. (:issue:`3729`, :issue:`3810`)
* Fix malformed reads when caching parallel warmup is enabled. (:issue:`3772`)

> * Fix evicting of cached data while still under size eviction threshold. (:issue:`3772`)

Reviewer 3: > Fix eviction of cached data while still under size eviction threshold.
